## About 0x

0x (ZRX) is an open [source](https://github.com/0xProject/0x-monorepo) protocol, created by the 0xProject, that allows for low friction exchange of ERC20 tokens. With the creation of their open standard, 0x hopes to promote growth and interoperability of decentralized applications (dApps) which make use of exchange functionality.

The 0xProject was founded in October 2016 by Amir Bandeali and Will Warren. Amir has a background as a fixed income trader, and currently retains the position of CTO at 0xProject. Will, who is now the CEO at 0xProject, previously worked for Los Alamos National Laboratories.

Amir and Will came up with the idea for 0x while thinking about the popularity of DEXs, and the effect they're having on the Ethereum blockchain. The problem is that on most of these implementations every market action is recorded on the blockchain, this causes unnecessary bloat and an increase in transaction fees for the entire network.

0xProject's solution is to offer a common standard for a second layer on Ethereum for DEXs, much in the same way that Lightning Network is creating a second layer on Bitcoin for transactions. The 0x protocol has all the tools one needs to build their DEX. [Here](https://0xproject.com/wiki#List-of-Projects-Using-0x-Protocol) is a list of projects currently using 0x.

The 0x protocol can offer two general types of trades. The first type is direct p2p trading, much like Bisq. In this method both users must be online to execute the trade. The second, and much more familiar method for users of centralized exchanges, is to place/pick orders from an orderbook which can be fulfilled regardless if the counterparty is online.

0x is able to achieve this with Relayers, which supply the orderbook and facilitate contract execution for market takers. Relayers cannot initiate trades themselves, they can only execute actions the maker and taker agree to. This is all secured through the use of smart contracts. The Relayers are paid in the ZRX tokens for their services.

## ICO & Price History

0xProject created 1 billion ZRX as ERC20 tokens on August 15, 2017. 500 million ZRX were sold to those that signed up at a price of $0.07 each, raising $24M during the ICO. The remaining 500M tokens are held in funds for the founders, developers, advisors, etc. These funds are locked for 4 years with some released every year.

ZRX began trading on August 16, 2017 at a price of $0.11. The token saw an all time high on January 9, 2018 at a price of $2.50. ZRX's current price is ${{price_usd}}, with a market cap of ${{market_cap_usd}}.

